## Mint 11.5.0 - Samsung Galaxy A50

### Changelog

**Main Changes:**
- Upstream kernel to `Linux 4.14.200`
- Bumps Security Patch Level to **January 2022 (2022-01).**
- Upstream kernel modules to currently-available Samsung stock sources.
- Updated Magisk to **v24.1**, with full support for **Zygisk**.
- Support and fixes for Android 12-based ROMs and GSIs.
- Finally, enabled support for `COMPAT_VDSO` again after months of tweaking. Improves performance for 64-bit compatibility for 32-bit processes.
- Move to 500HZ interrupts for observable improvements to device performance.
- For-performance tweaks and backports from custom kernels for the POCO X3 and the Galaxy M21.

**Improvements and Fixes:**
- Updates to `devfreq_boost`, should be more stable and battery-friendly now.
- Updates to Pressure Sensitive Indicator (PSI) support.
- Improvements to `schedutil`. Should fix device frequency scaling, which on 11.3 was staying on the lowest.
- Re-enable Samsung's "AI"-based frequency management, Kernel perspective AI based Resource Control (KAIR).
- Changes to the Mali GPU driver, which should improve performance as well as battery life.
- Changes to TCP, including improvements for `bbr`.
- Improvements to memory management and allocation.
- Improvements to Samsung SQZR/RAM Plus support. **Requires a supported ROM.**
- Improvements for the boosted fingerprint scan to further improve biometric speed.
- Fixes for MTP support on AOSP for some edge-cases.
- Various performance and stability improvements.

#### Release Guide:

Releases use the following filename template:

`Mint-Version_AndroidVersion_Variant-NoRoot_A50_Date_CI.zip`

Select the proper variant of the kernel for the ROM you're currently using. **Only use AOSP variants on non-One UI ROMs!**

 - One UI/Fresh - Select **OneUI**
 - One UI/Fresh without Magisk - Select **OneUI-NoRoot**
 - AOSP/LineageOS - Select **AOSP**
 - AOSP/LineageOS without Magisk - Select **AOSP-NoRoot**
